# Tom --- a Gemini frontend for git repositories

Tom aims to be a complete Gemini frontend for git repositories.  At the moment is still heavily worked on and has lots (almost all?)  missing pieces.

What's working:

* repository listing
* repository page
* file listing
* can serve files
* branch listing
* tag listing

What's missing:

* diffs in commit log
* blame view
* hiding repositories
* ...


## Usage

Tom is written in a mix of C and Lua.  To compile the C modules, execute:

```
make
```

the only dependency is zlib (on some distro `zlib-dev` or `zlib-devel` are also needed).

tom.lua is the entrypoint.  Tom looks for the following variables:

* `TOM_REPOS_DIR`: (mandatory) the directory that stores the git repositories to serve
* `TOM_CLONE_URL`: (optional) the base URL for cloning the repositories

Other environment variables that Tom uses are: (but are usually provided by your Gemini server)

* GATEWAY_INTERFACE
* PATH_INFO (optional)
* SCRIPT_NAME


## Example usage

Deploying and CGI handling varies from server to server.  I'm limiting to show a little excerpt of a possible gmid configuration

``` gmid example configuration
server "tom.example.com" {
	cert "..."
	key  "..."
	root "/path/to/tom"
	cgi  "*"

	# mandatory
	env "TOM_REPOS_DIR" = "/path/to/repos/"

	# optional
	env "TOM_CLONE_URL" = "https://git.example.com"

	location "/" {
		block return 30 "/tom.lua"
	}
}
```


## Misc

It's written in lua 5.3, but should *probably* work with older versions too.

For comments, criticism, bug reports or patches please send an email to tom@omarpolo.com or open an issue at github.

The name is a homage to "Space Oddity" by David Bowie.

$Tom: README.gmi,v 1.1 2021/10/21 10:33:49 op Exp $
